---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "Dark Dictator and card effect update"
comment: true
---
#### Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

The Dark dictator was a manga only card used by Ren Suzugamori in volume (2?). Anyways Bushiroad has decided to release this card as part of Manga volume 4.

**Dark Dictator (The manga version)**
GR3 | 10000POWER
CONT[V]: During your turn this unit gets +POWER2000 for every <<Shadow Paladin>> RG on your field.
AUTO[V]: All <<Shadow Paladin>> in the front row gets +POWER5000.

<!-- more -->

WTFox? That’s a 15k on your opponent’s turn! That one skill makes it immediately broken. It’s for the entire front row as well, so you can’t do anything unboosted. and even with a boost, how are you going to hit 25k(to force 15k shield)? They can do it so easily.

What’s more? Alfred skill? That makes him 25k on his attack. Wait, no, it can be BOOSTED: that’s 33k every turn and 23k for your RG attack.

Okay, to be honest, all manga skills are quite overpowered. Bushiroad changed its skill to this.

**The Dark Dictator**
G3 | 10000POWER
CONT[V]: This unit can not be boosted.
CONT[V]: During your turn this unit gets +POWER2000 for every <<Shadow Paladin>> RG on your field.
AUTO:[SB3] When this unit appears on (V), you may pay the cost. If you do, all your <<Shadow Paladin>> RG in your front front row gets +POWER5000 during this turn.

Whew! No perm 5k. That’s the biggest worry. And it gains the ability of Alfred’s unboosting. So it’s now down to 20k a turn, 10k on your opponent’s turn.

It’s a good effect. Not excellent, good. Why I say this? Well, any Shadow Player will run the Overlord chain, because of the 13k defense and excellent pressure ability.  The dictator on the other hand attacks and defends at a much lower power.

Getting to 20k is good, but it’s hard. And if you decide to use things like Baba Cara and Macha you need to KEEP those units and not use the retire effects that they do.

The last effect of Dark Dictator is a mini Soul saver. That is the best going for him, but that only works if you have two front RG (so, if you brought it out before it’s GR2 and later you have to ride over your grade 3).

You can however make a build on him. It’s doable. It’s just going to be non-Shadowy-ish. You can put the silver spear as the other grade 3, and Fatalia since you have a weaker VG, and more of those girls since you’ll be using less counterblasts.

However, Phantom Blaster Overlord is worth more of your money.

###Effect Update
If a unit has the skill:
 
This unit gets clan <<Royal Paladin>>
 
the unit will be treated to have both the  original clan + Royal Paladin as it’s clan even if the card only have one clan written on the original card. This means effects will trigger for both units. (As I was making fun of, have a void master treated as a RP and ride SSD.)
 
No cards are released so far with this effect, but it brings in the possibility of Hybrid clans in the future.
Right from here: [http://blog.livedoor.jp/freedomduo/archives/8638246.html](http://blog.livedoor.jp/freedomduo/archives/8638246.html)