---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "Jewel Knights"
comment: true
---

#### Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

<p>This is deck has a big flashy moves but little danger. These girls actually run much safer than other RP decks. They are not slow, but nor can they really rush. They have a nice round of crit, power and consistency royal paladins have; they just don&#8217;t excel in any particular department.</p>
<p>So as a level-headed deck it can do all of Royal Paladin&#8217;s gimmicks while saving cards in reserve.</p>
<p><strong>Idea</strong><br />
Make 16k/18k rows, and don&#8217;t misplay. Make your opponent collapse by your calm demeanor.</p>
<p><strong>General Advantages</strong><br />
Nothing in particular.</p><!-- more -->
<p><strong>General Disadvantages</strong><br />
As a jack-of-all-trades type of deck, this deck also does not have a particular weakness.</p>
<p><strong>Latest Improvement:</strong> DS01</p>
<h2>DS01</h2>
<p><strong>Pseudonym:</strong> Pure Paladins<br />
<strong>Notable Pros:</strong> N/A<br />
<strong>Notable Cons:</strong> N/A</p>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (8)</strong><br />
4 Leading Jewel Knight, Salome<br />
4 Pure Heart Jewel Knight, Ashley<br />
<strong>Grade 2 (11)</strong><br />
4 Fellowship Jewel Knight, Tracie<br />
4 Dogmatize Jewel Knight, Sybill<br />
3 Knight of Silence, Gallatin<br />
<strong>Grade 1 (14)</strong><br />
4 Stinging Jewel Knight, Sherrie<br />
4 Flashing Jewel Knight, Iseult<br />
4 Regret Jewel Knight, Ulien<br />
2 Jewel Knight, Prizme<br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
1 Dreaming Jewel Knight, Tiffany [FV]<br />
4 Enthusiastic Jewel Knight, Polly [HEAL]<br />
4 Dedicated Jewel Knight, Tabitha [DRAW]<br />
4 Blazing Jewel Knight, Rachelle [CRIT]<br />
4 Alabaster Owl [CRIT]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong><br />
<em>Dogmatize Jewel Knight, Sybill</em> I find this extremely bad. It does have a good skill, but being 8k really destroys anything useful it may do. As there are no 8k boosters, Sybill is going to sit at 15k tops. So to prevent that, call as few as you can, and use it more for guard fodder.<br />
<em>Knight of Silence, Gallatin</em> An odd choice, but there is not a 8k booster in sight, so we need to cover Sybill&#8217;s weakness. Anything over 8k would work, but 10k allows for a defensive ride or an unboosted attack early game.<br />
<em>Leading Jewel Knight, Salome</em> Salome can keep your grade 2 lineup intact, or bring out grade 3&#8217;s that you have no use for inside the deck. This defensive strategy is complemented by a passive crit and power, to ensure that a 5th damage heal will not save them from Salome&#8217;s dangerous skill.<br />
<em>Pure Heart Jewel Knight, Ashley</em> Both are good vanguards, and have slightly different playstyles.<br />
<em>Stinging Jewel Knight, Sherrie</em> This needs more credit. Being a 10k attacker, is solely enough to make it better than Sybill.<br />
<em>Dreaming Jewel Knight, Tiffany </em>It is difficult at times to find a good column to stage up with, so use its skill as early as possible to draw out guard or damage.</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
Sybill IS NOT an attacker, Sherrie IS an attacker. That is the main concept you need to wrap your head around. If you had either Sherrie or Sybill to place into the remaining front row spot, pick Sherrie. As there is no 21k row you can really make, it would not hurt to place Sherrie down for a permanent position.</p>
<p>Ride into Ashley: I&#8217;ve kept Sybill due to this, because Ashley can&#8217;t call anything. although I&#8217;ve lamented on Sybill&#8217;s power, Tiffany is a good support to prevent the opponent from gaining any card advantage.</p>
<p>Ride into Salome FROM Ashley: Be the first at 4 damage,  where you would attack with Salome first and threaten an instant game-ender. This will obviously force a perfect guard. If your opponent wants to play it really safe, you can then follow up by using your reaguards to attack thiers. Next turn repeat said strategy as just one crit is still a game ender, so the opponent must have faith to let Salome hit. (The chance of a crit is about 30% per check w/8 crit).</p>
<p>Ride into Salome: Call whatever Tracies you have, then when you run it dry switch into Salomes. There isn&#8217;t much to do with either vanguard, because the card pool given is very lacklustre.</p>
<p>Ride into Ashley FROM Salome: The strangest option, usually done if the opponent reorganized the entire field to hit against 10k. Not advised if the purpose was to prepare for a break ride the following turn.</p>
<p><strong>Columns</strong><br />
Booster&gt;Sherrie/Ashley/Salome/Gallatin/Tracie</p>
<p>Booster&gt;Sybill+Tiffany (one turn only)</p>
<p>Early game (before G3 ride)<br />
Booster&gt;Sybill</p>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
The only real modification is an option for the last grade 2. Delicate Knight Claudin and Lamorack are the only real alternatives (one being the exact clone as Gallatin&#8230;). Blaster Blade drains counterblasts to disrupt the opponents field.</p>
<p>You may also try 12 CRIT . This would mean you have a greater chance of damaging non-Jewels, so only Sybill can use them (Salome has the especial restriction).</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>The lack of any pizzaz other builds may have makes this deck is great to test against. The consistency makes sure you are facing a normal field, and the slight crit pressure prevents you from being too reckless or defensive. This balance is also quite easy to maintain, easy enough even for a newcomer to feel comfortable with. Putting my best effort into make this deck sound entertaining, the Jewel Knights might not keep your attention for long. Hope that a future reason will give them many more options, because now it seems pretty and dull.<i class="fa fa-stop"></i></p>
