---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "Cosmic Paladins"
categories: cfvg
comment: true
---

####  Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

<p>Soul Savor Dragon blasted it&#8217;s way into the meta and confirmed a stable spot, until Barcgal fell and everyone had their eyes on Majesty Lord Blaster. Not to say that it isn&#8217;t brilliant, but the meta has moved on without it.</p>
<p><strong>Idea</strong><br />
Cut down the opponent&#8217;s defenses until you can use SSD to wipe the floor. Hit for 26k and over for your final turn.</p>
<p><strong>General Advantages</strong><br />
Soul Savor has the advantage over Alfred for being able to provide 21k for a Vanguard attack. As well, the Final turn option brings an extra 15000 POWER to the front lines making it harder to defend.</p><!-- more -->
<p><strong>General Disadvantages</strong><br />
Alfred was able to repair any link in power, but at a heavy cost. There is nothing here that can bring in units.<br />
As well, it can be difficult to generate enough soul.</p>
<p><strong>Latest Improvement:</strong> Booster Set 3</p>
<h2>BT03</h2>
<p><strong>Pseudonym: </strong>The Fearsome Soulblast<br />
<strong>Notable Pros:</strong> N/A<br />
<strong>Notable Cons:</strong> N/A</p>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (8)</strong><br />
   4  Soul Savor Dragon<br />
   4  Knight of Explosive Flames, Palamedes<br />
<strong>Grade 2 (11)</strong><br />
   4  Blaster Blade<br />
   4  Knight of Silence, Gallatin<br />
   3  Knight of Truth, Gordon<br />
<strong>Grade 1 (14)</strong><br />
   4  Little Sage Marron<br />
   4  Flash Shield, Isuelt<br />
   4  Pongal<br />
   2  Toypugal<br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
   1  Stardust Trumpeter [FV]<br />
   4  Yggrasil Maiden, Elaine [HEAL]<br />
   4  Bringer of Good Luck, Epona [CRIT]<br />
   4  Knight of the Future, Llew [CRIT]<br />
   4  Alabaster Owl [CRIT]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong><br />
<em>Soul Saver Dragon</em> The 13k vanguard and potential soulblast.<br />
<em>Knight of Explosive Flames, Palamedes</em> A great rearguard to hit 21k. Or 13k by himself.<br />
<em>Blaster Blade</em> What RP deck would be complete without four?<br />
<em>Knight of Silence, Gallatin</em> Staple Vanilla<br />
<em>Knight of Turth, Gordon</em> S-intercept.<br />
<em>Little Sage Marron</em> Staple and allows our Bors to hit 21k lines<br />
<em>Flash Shield, Isuelt</em> Staple<br />
<em>Toypugal</em> Must Another target for Palamedes, or any rearguard.<br />
Pongal Our great SSD searcher, and brings in the consistency that RP was renowned for. Unfourtunely you would have to use its skill and alert the world that you plan to kill them.<br />
<em>Stardust Trumpeter</em> Now that Barcgal is banned.<br />
<em>Yggrasil Maiden, Elaine</em> The Heal that saved Aichi&#8217;s doom about 4 or more times.<br />
<em>Bringer of Good Luck, Epona</em> Critical trigger<br />
<em>Knight of the Future, Llew</em> A second set to get the opponent to guard, and then we pump it to our high powered rearguard.<br />
<em>Alabaster Owl</em> Cheaper then most of the RP&#8217;s crits.</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
Ride Marron, Gallatin, then SSD. Bring in Pongal, to add another SSD<br />
Spam BB&#8217;s skill at any opportunity. There is no other form of counterblasts in this deck.<br />
Finish it off with a Soul Savor ride, putting it on either 2 or 3 columns.</p>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
Gordon is your average S-intercepter. The replacement option for him is Akane, which isn&#8217;t that good. She can only bring out Pongal, and BB is much more useful with counterblast. Akane becomes more useful if you get more Hi-beasts in. I hate to see people who perform the following combo: CB2 with Akane, bring out Pongal, then CB1 and bring out SSD. Did you just realize you Counterblasted 3 just to get a grade 3 with no sheild? Alfred is just one unit and can bring out a free unit AND get shield like Gordon or something. Really.<br />
<strong></strong></p>
<h2>BT10</h2>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
Swap Stardust with Dreaming Jewel Knight, Tiffany. What? No Jewel Knights? That&#8217;s not the point. The point is the early boosts it gives you, which then you can move back into the soul at any time for a better booster and meet SSD&#8217;s requirements.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Cosmic Paladin&#8217;s cross into the soul and gives Royal Paladins a new set of cards to battle the world.<i class="fa fa-stop"></i></p>
