---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "Royal Fangs Of Light"
categories: cfvg
comment: true
---

#### Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

<p>I still have no clue what Hi-beasts are, and I would love to dissect them and figure out their metabolism and genetic structure. Because these units are so full of energy yet so easily controlled. Their brilliance is blinding, opening the road to a new deck.</p>
<p><strong>Idea</strong><br />
Most consistent Snowgal back row boosting anything.</p>
<p><strong>General Advantages<br />
</strong>This deck has even more consistency than any other Royal paladin deck, making it very easy to have a good game. Both grade 3&#8217;s will top at 21k on vanguard every turn, and both grade 3&#8217;s can be used on rearguard without a problem, making any ride a perfect ride.</p><!-- more -->
<p><strong>General Disadvantages</strong><br />
This deck falls in the advantage category when compared to the other royals. It also is forced to rely on triggers for criticals, therefore has a less dangerous output.</p>
<p>It also falls apart with two (but usually one) back row retire.</p>
<p><strong>Latest Improvement:</strong> Daigo</p>
<h2>BT04</h2>
<p><strong>Pseudonym:</strong> Bright Canines<br />
<strong>Notable Pros:</strong> More consistency in the back row.<br />
<strong>Notable Cons:</strong> No 11k base.</p>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (8)</strong><br />
4 Fang of Light, Garmore<br />
4 Knight of the Explosive Flames, Palamedes<br />
<strong>Grade 2 (12)</strong><br />
4 Blaster Blade<br />
4 High-Dog Breeder Akane<br />
4 Beast Knight, Garmore<br />
<strong>Grade 1 (13)</strong><br />
4 Flash Shield, Isuelt<br />
4 Little Sage Marron<br />
4 Snowgal<br />
3 Guardian of the Night Skies, Night Griffon<br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
1 Brugal [FV]<br />
4 Yggrasil Maiden, Elaine [HEAL]<br />
4 Alabaster Owl [CRIT]<br />
4 Bringer of Good Luck, Epona [CRIT]<br />
4 Margal [DRAW]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong><br />
<em>Fang of Light, Garmore</em> In vanguard, it&#8217;ll get 3000POWER from 3 snowgals due to just how easy the row is to form. Remember the skill can be use when placed on the rearguard circle, so it is easy to convert anything into Snowgal. Snowgal searcher 1<br />
<em>High Dog Breeder Akane</em> Snowgal searcher 2. Unlike the other 2 searchers, it actually gives you advantage.<br />
<em>Beast Knight, Garmore</em> Snowgal searcher 3. Since it is just so easy to get a backrow with 12 searchers, we can completely focus on more attackers being 8k.<br />
<em>Blaster Blade</em> The killing machine, to use up the remaining counterblasts.<br />
<em>Little Sage Marron</em> Surprisingly, not for boosting but rather attacking. That&#8217;s if you don&#8217;t have any other option.<br />
<em>Snowgal</em> Please resign from vanguard if you can&#8217;t manage a full row of these by the fourth turn.<br />
<em>Guardian of the Night Skies, Night Griffon</em> Toypugal&#8217;s 9k only works on boost, so that is useless. Griffon uses us whatever soul that&#8217;s left, which provides 2 turns of use (17k vs 14k). Better than a 7k that hits for 15k, and no way am I using counterblasts to swing for 16k. Whatever, this is just perfect fodder.<br />
<em>Margal</em> Since your searchers discard cards, we can&#8217;t have full crits and run into having to discard a \10/. So instead lose a \5/ and use a draw to regain advantage.</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
Always have a Snowgal backrow. The main fault comes when you decide to place a different booster down (most likely due to impatience). Marron, Starlight or whatever is discarded in favor of Snowgals. Along the same line, I won&#8217;t suggest calling Brugal behind the vanguard, even if it is means the first attack might fail. That is because you can fill the back row with Snowgal and have Brugal as an attacker. You won&#8217;t believe how many people are willing to attack a front row Brugal. If they are smarter, just replace it with something that works.</p>
<p>The preferred ride is Garmore, with Palamedes on the sides to provide an imagined 21|21|21. Closer to practice, two of the columns will manage so. The nice thing about this is that if you miss Garmore, you can ride Palamedes and STILL have a 21k vanguard. Garmore in rearguard won&#8217;t make a 21k attack, but it&#8217;ll fill Palamedes condition while setting up a boost behind it.</p>
<p>Akane and Blaster Blade fight for the three available times to counterblast (most games you heal once). It depends on the situation, but I like Blaster Blade as it retires, which is way cooler then calling a puppy. (No offense Snowgal)</p>
<p><strong>Columns</strong><br />
You are asking advice on building a column when the ENTIRE point of the deck is a full SNOWGAL back row.</p>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
As I&#8217;ve said, Night Griffon is just a jab until we get something better. If you can&#8217;t find any Griffons, take Starlight Unicorn, which makes a one turn 8k row, and it is a high beast, so that makes it better than any other grade 1 replacement.</p>
<p><a name="DS01"></a></p>
<h2>DS01</h2>
<p><strong>Pseudonym:</strong> Light End Dragons<br />
<strong>Notable Pros:</strong> 11k defense, Limit break, daigo&#8217;s card. Oh, and the 9:11:13 perfect grade ratio.<br />
<strong>Notable Cons: Now have one vanguard much preferred other the other. More reliance on certain units.</strong></p>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (9)</strong><br />
4 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Sanctuary Guard Dragon</span><br />
4 Knight of the Explosive Flames, Palamedes<br />
1 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Dignified Silver Dragon</span><br />
<strong>Grade 2 (11)</strong><br />
4 Blaster Blade<br />
4 High-Dog Breeder Akane<br />
3 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Battle Flag Knight, Constance</span><br />
<strong>Grade 1 (13)</strong><br />
4 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Flashing Jewel Knight, Isuelt</span><br />
4 Little Sage Marron<br />
4 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Toypugal</span><br />
3 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Rendgal</span><br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
1 Brugal [FV]<br />
4 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Enthusiastic Jewel Knight, Polly</span> [HEAL]<br />
4 Alabaster Owl [CRIT]<br />
4 <span style="color:#ff0000;">Blazing Jewel Knight, Rachelle</span> [CRIT]<br />
4 Margal [DRAW]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong><br />
<em>Sanctuary Guard Dragon</em> 11k. Unlike Garmore, the call ability is on-ride only (meaning on-call doesn&#8217;t work). However, it is not limited to Snowgal, so we had them removed for Toypugal.<br />
<em>Dignified Silver Dragon</em> Toypugal needs grade 3&#8217;s. Dignified needs a 9k booster to reach 21k. Problem solved.<br />
<em>Battle Flag Knight, Constance</em> Dangerous card to let hit. Worth it to force the opponent to guard for something other than crit or power in royals for a change.<br />
<em>Toypugal</em> Since Snowgal&#8217;s are gone, all the rules of boosters reapply here. Toypugal hopes to make 21k.<br />
<em>Rendgal</em> As a 7k, it is enough to have its stay. Super rare occasion to get a 10k booster, so we keep it for fun purposes.<br />
<em>Blazing Jewel Knight, Rachelle</em> aesthetic super face-lift!</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
Sanctuary rides, and we get 3 different searchers to make a back row of Toypugal. The opponent though can retire the front row Grade 3&#8217;s at now you are stuck. Luckily 9 garde 3&#8217;s will make is slightly harder than they want. We get 1 more attacker with us, so it may be a touch more efficient to create 21k rows. Still, be more defensive on rearguard attacks concerning Palamedes.</p>
<p>Rengal is usually the fodder, and Constance also never hits, so those are your weak links if you are hoping to point fingers at something. They are essential in holding our framework together in odd situations. Akane has the upper hand on Blaster Blade now.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>The dogs increase consistency to a maximum, beating all other royals with infinite toolboxing. While it does miss out on a couple of critical categories, power is enough for these dogs to compete with all the other royals. It has dragons, dogs, grown men and little girls.<i class="fa fa-stop"></i></p>
