---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "Majestic Royal Lord Paladin Blaster "
categories: cfvg
comment: true
---

#### Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

<p>Whelp. Here is the infamous MLB. Royal Paladins have combined everything they have worked on and more.</p>
<p><strong>Idea</strong><br />
Ride Majesty Lord Blaster. Win.</p>
<p><strong>General Advantages</strong><br />
Crit, Power, Consistency. Nothing missing.<br />
In addition: Defense, Advantage and dead simple.</p><!-- more -->
<p><strong>General Disadvantages</strong><br />
There are none per se, but being 12k does make it slightly more permeable to attacks. Actually, I find that is much more permeable due to the recent influx of units. DO NOT take this as weakness though, because it still has everything all the other royals have, but also has defense and advantage.</p>
<p><strong>Latest Improvement:</strong> Booster Set 5</p>
<h2>BT05</h2>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (7)</strong><br />
4 Majesty Lord Blaster<br />
3 Solitary Knight, Gancelot<br />
<strong>Grade 2 (12)</strong><br />
4 Blaster Blade<br />
4 Blaster Dark<br />
4 Knight of Loyalty, Bedivere<br />
<strong>Grade 1 (14)</strong><br />
4 Flash Shield, Isuelt<br />
4 Knight of Friendship, Kay<br />
4 Little Sage Marron<br />
2 Starlight Unicorn<br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
1 Wingal Brave [FV]<br />
4 Yggrasil Maiden, Elaine [HEAL]<br />
4 Future Knight, Llew [CRIT]<br />
4 Bringer of Good Luck, Epona [CRIT]<br />
4 Alabaster Owl [CRIT]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong><br />
<em>Solitary Knight, Gancelot</em> It&#8217;s either MLB or nothing. There is no back-up vanguard, because there is no need for a back-up. Since it is a crossride, there is a one turn give so you do not need to rush into MLB.<br />
<em>Blaster Blade</em> Use its skill as much as possible. With Gancelots, 3 a game is pretty much certian.<br />
<em>Blaster Dark</em> Since we have no Starcall, we need to draw into it (Or the opponent lets Wingal Brave boost and hit).<br />
<em>Knight of Friendship, Kay</em> In case we run out of attackers, we have this and Marron for 18k.<br />
<em>Starlight Unicorn</em> Behind Bidievere, on-call give to something that can make a column. If the opponent is non-crossride, then Starlight can abuse by selecting rows to force an extra card out.<br />
<em>Wingal Brave</em> Can either hit early, or after MLB, or never. Doesn&#8217;t matter which one, you are still going to get MLB at 12k.</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
Ride MLB. Use skill. Win.<br />
&gt; If you only have BD and BB in hand; you can also try riding BD, then BB then MLB. Still works because of the crossride status being a 1 extra Turn thing.<br />
&gt; This deck allows MLB to use its skill 2 to 3 times a game. Not that you need to go that many, but if you find that they are lacking a Perfect try to run them out.</p>
<p>Return all Gancelots untill you run out of BB. Call them and fire at any 9k&#8217;s.</p>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
Do not even try to assert any other grade 3&#8217;s in here. MLB &amp; Gancelot handles everything by itself.</p>
<p>Starcall is neat, but it&#8217;s either a pitiful 8k attacker or a 12k attacker. In the crossirde meta-game, the later is better.</p>
<p>12 Crits is necessary to even have a slight chance against crossrides. Forces them to guard the vanguard at 3 damage or suffer an instant kill.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>The majestic end to the royal paladins. The once courageous warrior now bestowed as lord: Blaster Blade the immortal.</p>
<p>On a more serious note, there is a hardly any improvements you can make with future sets.Everything save for the grade 1 line-up is static as they al have a role in MLB&#8217;s main plan. You will need 4 Perfect guards so that only leaves room for 10 cards, all of them either 10k+ attackers or 8k+ boosters to fight the crossride meta.<i class="fa fa-stop"></i></p>
