---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "Acceleration Knights"
categories: cfvg
comment: true
---

####  Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

<p>Galahad has three well placed ideas. It can be an 11k, it can force a crit bonus, and it decreases the chances of being grade locked.<br />
However, The 11k is harder to get, the bonus can be guarded easily, and the ride chain clogs useful royal paladins. This mix and match makes Galahad an interesting option for Royals.</p>
<p>From Set 10 and onwards, the Galahad deck has almost nothing better then all the other royal paladin decks. As a dejected and old ride chain though, you may be able to gather all the cards at relatively inexpensive prices.</p>
<p><strong>Idea</strong><br />
String abilities to create advantage. Use the advantage to maintain pressure throughout the game.</p>
<p><strong>General Advantages</strong><br />
CB2 for a stage and a crit was bad on Gancelot because it was 9k, but great on an 11k body.<br />
The ride chain has a possibility to get the entire chain off for free. Combine that with Blaster Blade and other advantage units and you can stay clear out of the opponent&#8217;s reach.</p><!-- more -->
<p><strong>General Disadvantages</strong><br />
It is not so pretty once you&#8217;ve missed the ride chain, because Galahad becomes a crusty 9k. Palamedes isn&#8217;t exactly spectacular on vanguard either. No pluses at all.</p>
<p>Want Critical? Go with MLB or Salome.<br />
Want Power? Go with Soul Paladins or other similar decks<br />
Want 11k base? Ashley and Sanctuary</p>
<p>So Galahad really has nothing to contribute to the table, but in a perfect game it may be able to generate more pluses then Ashley.</p>
<p><strong>Latest Improvement:</strong> Booster Set 3</p>
<h2>BT03</h2>
<p><strong>Pseudonym:</strong> Godly Acceleration<br />
<strong>Notable Pros:</strong> N/A<br />
<strong>Notable Cons:</strong> N/A</p>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (8)</strong><br />
4 Knight of Godly Speed, Galahad<br />
4 Knight of Explosive Flames, Palamedes<br />
<strong>Grade 2 (10)</strong><br />
4 Knight of Trials, Galahad<br />
4 Blaster Blade<br />
2 High Dog Breeder, Akane<br />
<strong>Grade 1 (15)</strong><br />
4 Knight of Discovery, Galahad<br />
4 Flash Shield, Iseult<br />
4 Toypugal<br />
3 Little Sage Marron<br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
1 Dorangal [FV]<br />
4 Yggrasil Maiden, Elaine [HEAL]<br />
4 Bringer of Good Luck, Epona [CRIT]<br />
4 Knight of the Future, Llew [CRIT]<br />
4 Alabaster Owl [CRIT]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong><br />
<em>Knight of Godly Speed, Galahad</em> If you want its crit, you must ride again or do something equally stupid.<br />
<em>Blaster Blade</em> Extra Advantage A.<br />
<em>High Dog Breeder, Akane</em> Extra Advantage B.</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
It is quite easy how to use this deck. Just ride up to Grade 3, then build rows an attack.</p>
<p>Counterblasts are limited so advantage building may be tricky:<br />
Without any counterblasts, there is a chance to +3 from not having to ride any unit (thereby conserving hand).<br />
All other advantages use 2 counterblasts each.<br />
Akane brings out rear-guards, good when you have more attackers then boosters.<br />
Blaster blade kills rear-guards, good when the opponent has a tricky front row unit (Or you just want to kill an intercept).<br />
Galahad is trickier. There first has to be a perfect ride, but then you need to ride AGAIN to use its effect. That means you -1 to +1. the cool thing is though, the opponent must guard the crit, and the little power boost may have made the attack passing 21k. If so, you can get a net +1.5 for that turn. It is situational similar to Phantom Blaster Overlord, but at a lower cost and can be used more effectively. Make sure Galahad only counterblasts once a turn, because using it twice results in a +0.5, which is really bad.</p>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
None to speak of.</p>
<h2>BT10</h2>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
Palamedes may be substituted out for Ashley or something, but that removes potential 21k rows. In effect, there is nothing that can provide enough and specific soul for Galahad to require an upgrade.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Even with all the new ideas Royal Paladins combined, it still did not allow Galahad to surpass anything Royal Paladins have done. Being under the bar makes it difficult for Galahad to compete with other decks, but there is still some amount of flexibility and control in this deck for it to stay alive in the casual format.<i class="fa fa-stop"></i></p>
