---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "The C.I.A. (Crimson Impact Angels)"
categories: cfvg
comment: true
---

####  Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

<p>Angel Feathers is coming in strong with amazing grade 3&#8217;s in every set. Metatron facilitates a massive field, with bonus power. Being able to use the damage zone efficiently comes in the form of Machine Gun Nociel, which is greatly synergistic with Metatron. It is quite beautiful to see such amazing movements between the damage zone, hand and field as you use the deck, and if the opponent was not concentrating on winning they would tear up at this deck&#8217;s grace.</p>
<p><strong>Idea</strong><br />
21|21|26 OR 23|28|23 depending on opponent&#8217;s vanguard.</p>
<p><strong>General Advantages</strong><br />
Reliable 21k and 23k crossride hitting numbers. With Nociel at LB; you have the ability to use every card, reducing field and hand entropy. Unlike Shamsiel you don&#8217;t need to have a Thousand Ray/ Calamity Flame row, and even Thousand Ray boosting Requiel is still okay in certain conditions.</p><!-- more -->
<p><strong>General Disadvantages</strong><br />
Heavily reliant on at least one GR2 Nociel. If it gets retired, Metatron will be much less useful.</p>
<p><strong>Latest Improvement:</strong> BT09</p>
<h2>BT09</h2>
<p><strong>Pseudonym:</strong> The thrones of Heaven and Hell<br />
<strong>Notable Pros:</strong> N/A<br />
<strong>Notable Cons:</strong> N/A</p>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (8)</strong><br />
4 Crimson Impact, Metatron<br />
4 The Phoenix, Calamity Flame<br />
<strong>Grade 2 (11)</strong><br />
4 Million Ray Pegasus<br />
4 Love Machine Gun, Nociel<br />
3 Gatling Shot, Barbiel<br />
<strong>Grade 1 (14)</strong><br />
4 Thousand Ray Pegasus<br />
4 Pure Keeper, Requiel<br />
4 Burst Shot, Bethnael<br />
2 Emergency Vehicle<br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
1 Hope Child, Turiel [FV]<br />
4 Sunny Smile Angel [HEAL]<br />
4 Fever Therapy Nurse [DRAW]<br />
4 Critical Hit Angel [CRIT]<br />
2 Rocket Dash Unicorn [CRIT]<br />
2 Rampage Cart Angel [CRIT]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong></p>
<p><em>Love Machine Gun, Nociel</em> THIS. The single card that maximizes Metatron&#8217;s potential. It (A) Makes Metatron&#8217;s cost 0 by swapping damage which (B) gives another +2000 which C) Guarantees a completely free stage which (D) Allows dynamic columns and therefore (D) Minimizes entropy and maximizes card efficiency.<br />
<em>Crimson Impact, Metatron</em> Our main vanguard to utilize field to damage swaps. Reliable Limit break making it really easy to give 4000 to up to 3 units even without Nociel.<br />
<em>Gatling Shot, Barbiel </em>creates a solid 10k defense to fill in the weak Grade 2 vanguard, as well as being able to combine with Thousand Ray to hit for 21k on limit break.<br />
<em>Burst Shot, Bethnael</em> If Thousand ray is not available, Calamity/Pegasus can combine with this to create 23k+ columns.<br />
<em>Emergency Vehicle</em> Provides you with more 10k shields. I don&#8217;t know about you, but most of the games I play I have about 3~4 Grade 3&#8217;s in my damage zone at the end of the game. To get the most out of the grade 3&#8217;s Emergency uses it to counterblast.<br />
<em>Hope Child, Turiel</em> From soul to field to damage to hand Nociel can add yet another \10/ to the rounds. Avoid using the skill, because the previous method will maximize your +1 similar to how Dragon Egg will work&#8230;without the counterblast. Use the skill only if Metatron has been damaged and you do not have one in hand because getting Metatron is more important then an extra \10/.<br />
<em>Fever Therapy Nurse</em> A &#8216;tech&#8217; card. Criticals are better on average, but Turiel/Crits/Emergency \10/ can be fetched easily, meaning you actually get card advantage. Needs a touch of practice to use it well, but if you aren&#8217;t finding it particularly useful swap it out for more crits.</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
Ride into Metatron. Keep one Nociel in stock.<br />
Read the columns on idea on how to set up the field at limit break.</p>
<p>Use Metatron&#8217;s swap to increase power of certain units, and to throw away temporary use cards (Staples and stuff)<br />
Use Nociel to increase your shielding, like grade 3&#8217;s for \10/.<br />
Emergency can counterblast the excess grade 3&#8217;s in the damage.</p>
<p><strong>Columns</strong><br />
Let&#8217;s talk about this more in depth since Metatron keeps your field dynamic, not static.</p>
<p>There are only three possible arrangements for limit break. You can either (1) remove one from each side column, (2) two on one side or (3) one on the side and the other behind Metatron. Removing the unit behind Metatron is usually the best choice, as the vanguard gets a &#8216;hidden&#8217; 5000 POWER from its drive checks. <span style="color:#0000ff;">With 0 Nociel</span>:<br />
21k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(11) &gt; Barbiel(10)<br />
Bethnael(8) &gt; Million/Metatron/Calamity (13/13/14)</p>
<p>23k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(11) &gt; Million/Metatron/Calamity (13/13/14)</p>
<p>As two units are replaced, only 2 out of 3 columns will get power. So it&#8217;s either going to be 16|21|25 or 21|24|21. Not too impressive. <span style="color:#0000ff;">With 1 Nociel, stuff happens:</span></p>
<p>16k+ rows:<br />
Nociel (/) &gt; Calamity(16)<br />
*NOCIEL WORKS IN THE BACK ROW. I&#8217;m saying this because if you really need to keep Nociel you can keep it safe from attacks.<br />
Bethnael(8) &gt; Nociel (8)<br />
21k+ rows:<br />
Bethnael(8) &gt; Metatron (13)<br />
Thousand(13) &gt; Nociel (8)<br />
Requiel/Emergency (6/6) &gt; Million/Calamity (15/16)<br />
All Grade 0&#8217;s &gt; Calamity(16)<br />
26k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(13) &gt; Metatron (13)</p>
<p>23k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(13) &gt; Barbiel(10)<br />
Bethnael(8) &gt; Million/Calamity (15/16)<br />
28k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(13) &gt; Million/Calamity (15/16)</p>
<p>Say Nociel is behind a Thousand Ray, the other row is with at least one +2k unit and the vanguard has a Thousand/Bethnael. This creates a 21|21|26 very easily. <span style="color:#0000ff;">Lastly we move onto two Nociels.:</span></p>
<p>21k+ rows:<br />
Bethnael(8) &gt; Metatron (13)<br />
Thousand (15) &gt; Requiel/Emergency (6/6)<br />
26k+ rows:<br />
Bethnael(8) &gt; Calamity (18)<br />
31k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(15) &gt; Million (17)</p>
<p>18k+ rows:<br />
Nociel (/) &gt; Calamity(18)<br />
23k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(15) &gt; Bethnael/Barbiel/Nociel (8/10)<br />
Bethnael(8) &gt; Million (17)<br />
28k+ rows:<br />
Thousand(15) &gt; Metatron (13)<br />
33k+rows:<br />
Thousand(15) &gt; Million (18)</p>
<p>What are 16k rows? Problem is, having both on the field will mean you need to choose between both Nociels on one side, one nociel in front and another behind the vanguard, or on both side areas;</p>
<p>[NC] [VG] [RG] 8|28|33<br />
[NC] [RG] [RG]</p>
<p>or</p>
<p>[NC] [VG] [NC] 23|28|23<br />
[RG] [RG] [RG]</p>
<p>or</p>
<p>[NC] [VG] [RG] 23|13|33<br />
[RG] [NC] [RG] *Actually, this last formation can be made into a 23|16|33 with Fever therapy.</p>
<p>Unless the opponent has a crossride out, one Nociel is suficient (21|21|26 is actually better then 23|28|23 as the power is focused on a rear). Against crossrides, a Nociel on both ends is amazing at forcing out cards from the stupid tanks. Just note how flexible Metatron is at creating columns ranging anywhere from 21000-33000.</p>
<p>Two final notes. These are all columns made if you did not normal call Nociel that turn. Calling just one Nociel can at like a pseudo-two, but without the extra field commitment. If you consider the above 23|28|23, if two Nociels happened to be normal called then the entire row will shift into 27|32|27. The other option is to use Fever Therapy Nurse. Though you won&#8217;t find many situations to use them, at certian times they can be extremely useful. Commonly, Fever is used when Metatron does not have a full field to work with, in which case it diverts its focus into the side columns to be 13k, and then Fever can pump it to 16k. Or, in the same 23|28|23 can be 23|31|23. These small but nifty ideas can help surpass your opponents guard.</p>
<p>P.S. Remember these are all post-LB values! Don&#8217;t talk about pre-LB.</p>
<p><strong>Variations</strong><br />
Emergency just worked out the best in my testing. Battle Cupid Nociel usually couldn&#8217;t pull anything from the damage zone that the other Nociel couldn&#8217;t, and unlike Shamsiel Metatron gets no power from swapping. Since most cards you swap into the damage zone is grade 3&#8217;s (or 5k&#8217;s), Emergency can choose to make grade 3&#8217;s useful for one more time by using it for counterblast. The grade 2 Nociel can keep Metatron&#8217;s effect free, so you will never run into any problem with Emergency.</p>
<p>Excluding Bethanael, and replacing draws for crits, absolutely no other changes should be made.<br />
Since you have many extra \10/, getting raw advantage is good as you can swap it out for more \10/. If an attack goes for 21k, it wouldn&#8217;t be fair to use 2\10/ to stop it, but if you saturate your hand like so ten you can be losing more shield then gaining. Draws are bad since the 5k draws a 5k and you are stuck with nothing good. Angel Feather fixes that so both the draw trigger and the drawn card can be \10/, so you can get a lovely +2 from the draw trigger.</p>
<h2>Bethanael Variations</h2>
<p>Yes, I made a header just for Bethanael.</p>
<p>From the decklist I provide you, other then replacing draws for more cirts, Bethanael is the only unit that does not fit the idea of Metatron, and so is listed as an outsider. Bethanael was chosen simply for its simplicity (Nothing beats a solid 10k on turn 2). However, Metatron&#8217;s unique ability allows pretty much ANY card to be teched with varying success. You can even put in 1 copy of the following options, because Metatron can allow you to be that cool.</p>
<p>Becca!!!! OMG, I am so replacing a manly 10k vannila for an asethetically pleasing 10k vannila.</p>
<p>Iron Heart is meh. It has 1k over Beth, which when combined with a trigger reach 16k. A trigger? Ya, go swap that with Metatron once you are ready. Or if your facing crossrides, allows you to pair up with Thousand Ray and smack 13k bases.</p>
<p>Core Memory does conflicts with Fever in counterblast, therefore this option belongs to the 12C variant. Given the rate of Nociel swapping and Metatron&#8217;s Limit Break is 1+:1, Armaros can draw a couple of cards to gain raw advantage while slapping hard on tempo.</p>
<p>Doctroid Megalos is great at doping Calamity, Million and Thousand even more and makes limit break faster to access. Since the deck pretty much depends on Limit Break, that is useful. You&#8217;ve got the ability to use the extra card damaged, and the ability to put [DRAW]/other triggers back into the deck. These self-damagers are extremely useful in Angel Feather, and Metatron can take advantage of them much more then other decks. The only hiccup is that at limit break a Nociel is guarenteed, but not so if you artifically accelerate the process.</p>
<p>Holy Zone makes yet anopther \10/, as if you needed anymore shield. A normal deck has about \305/ total, or \6.224/ per card.<br />
With the inclusion of this and 12 Crits; there is a monsterous \360/ total (\7.347//card). And this does not include the ability to replace all your \5/ and \/ with all the \10/ found in the damage zone. I wouldn&#8217;t even be surprised if Metatron gets +\10/ in guard material every turn. Metatron decks are completely TANK.</p>
<p>Examiner Angel 7k is a weakness by making turn 2 a disaster to live through, and it can only go up to 20k on Limit Break. It does however have a 51.0% of pulling anything, and it doesn&#8217;t matter what is brought out since Metatron can remove Examiner and/or the card it brings out and store for later use. If it reveals a Trigger, it isn&#8217;t called out so that will save you the trouble of dealing with the GoldPaladin-complex. So when it works it becomes an absolutely FREE plus. If the effect misfires, Metatron can provide a second chance at the effect. Since Examiner is close to a coin flip, with Metatron it can provide a semi-consistent plus. No need for draws if your teching in Examiner. This unit is only for more experienced/technical cardfighters.</p>
<p>Drug store fairy is just like Iron Heart, with different conditionals. Iron Heart works if you fail getting Metatron, but with Drug store nurse you don&#8217;t have to have more damage.</p>
<p>Doctroid Argus is a 12k beater, not sure if you need +2k from Beth. Against crossrides, this and Emergency/Requiel can provide a good boost early on.</p>
<p>It would be strange to find that Sariel is not found in the decklist, considering that Sariel is perfect as a back-up in acquring both Metatron and Nociel so you get your A-game more then 70% of the time. (With 3 Sariels that makes it 83%+!). Actaully, I have no idea either&#8230;just joking. With Sariel you need to take 2 damage, not exactly the brightest option. We only need 1 Nociel max, so Sariel isn&#8217;t necessary to produce more copies. Since Sariel can&#8217;t add any card to the damage zone that can be useful, it only serves as yet an increase in consistency.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Metatron delivers a heavy blow on any deck it faces, and with a variety of different options and field setups the deck is also quite unpredictable. Angel Feathers have more variety and combinations to make sure no one harms angels with impunity.<i class="fa fa-stop"></i></p>
