---
layout: default-cfvg
title:  "Shamsiel Sancturary"
categories: cfvg
comment: true
---

####  Woah there! This is a REALLY outdated post. For more current and accurate articles visit my [main page](/cfvg).

<p>Want to annoy the opponent into insanity with little quips? Shamsiel provides the tools to get at every inch of the opponent. One of Shamsiel&#8217;s advantage is the ability to become a pseudo-crossride, and we all know how annoying crossrides are to face. To me, Shamsiel is the closest you can get to a central image of Angel Feathers, do to its versatility in every section that it is famous for. She provides the tools to manage the drop zone, increase defense on the opponent&#8217;s turn, providing above par offense, and a bit of pressure here and there.</p>
<p><strong>Idea<br />
</strong>Create strong attacks on your turn while turning up the defense meter on the opponent&#8217;s turn.</p>
<p><strong>General Advantages</strong><br />
Huge defense and unflipping possbilities. A good mix of offense with a touch of pressure.</strong></p><!-- more -->
<p>General Disadvantages</strong><br />
Retiring and early game decks can take it apart.</p>
<p><strong>Latest Improvement:</strong> Set 9</p>
<h2><strong>Set 7</strong></h2>
<p><strong>Pseudonym:</strong> Chief executive angel<br />
<strong>Cost:</strong> ~$[Cost]<br />
<strong>Notable Pros:</strong> pseudo-crossride power.<br />
<strong>Notable Cons:</strong> Missing out on a cool draw trigger.</p>
<p><strong>Grade 3 (8)</strong><br />
   4  Chief Nurse, Shamsiel<br />
   4  The Pheonix, Calamity Flame<br />
<strong>Grade 2 (11)</strong><br />
   4 Million Ray Pegasus<br />
   4  Core Memory, Armaros<br />
   3  Love Machine Gun, Nociel<br />
<strong>Grade 1 (14)</strong><br />
   4 Thousand Ray Pegasus<br />
   4  Pure Keeper, Requiel<br />
   4  Battle Cupid, Nociel<br />
   2  Lancet Shooter<br />
<strong>Grade 0 (17)</strong><br />
   4  Hope Child, Turiel [FV]<br />
   4  Sunny Smile Angel [HEAL]<br />
   4  Critical Hit Angel [CRIT]<br />
   4  Rocket Dash Unicorn [CRIT]<br />
   4  Bouquet Toss Messenger [DRAW]</p>
<p><strong>Breakdown</strong><br />
<em>Chief Nurse, Shamsiel</em> Unflipping every turn. 12k base after a damage. Easily accessible global power boost.<br />
<em>The Pheonix, Calamity Flame</em> No other unit is acceptable as a back-up vanguard, since there are many cards that give boosts on your turn regardless.<br />
<em>Million Ray Pegasus</em> Not as good as calamity in terms of power, but it still provides a solid vanguard on the opponent&#8217;s turn.<br />
<em>Core Memory, Armaros</em> It should make sense to put in a unit that provides pressure even if it has a moderate cost because we have nice unflipper units.<br />
<em>Love Machine Gun, Nociel</em> A way to unflip before the limit break.<br />
<em>Thousand Ray Pegasus</em> Synergy with Shamsiel keeps it at 9k. What a nice booster.<br />
<em>Pure Keeper, Requiel</em> early on, you might want to put these INTO the damage and pull them out later. That way you can use the most of your 10k shields before relying on perfects.<br />
<em>Battle Cupid, Nociel</em> This card is so much fun to use. Used in battles where you can&#8217;t take any more damage, Nociel can artificially increase Shamsel to crossride numbers.<br />
<em>Lancet Shooter</em> I find it better then Bethnael due to its power skill. It is nice to chnage up the boost to hit magic numbers if you happen to be missing Shamsiel. Being one of two possible counterblasters, it does not take up much space. The 7k base is also great, with a peculiar ability to become a possible attacker.<br />
<em>Hope Child, Turiel </em> Only remove it from the field if you need a Shamsiel in the damage turn 2, or if you need room for a third Pegasus. Otherwise stay patient Shamsiel<br />
<em>Sunny Smile Angel</em>  The longer you last, the higher the chance this trigger will pop up.<br />
<em>Critical Hit Angel</em>  Shamsiel has no effect threat. Criticals are inherently so.<br />
<em>Rocket Dash Unicorn</em> And one more set to confirm thier fears.<br />
<em>Bouquet Toss Messenger</em> Some form of pure advantage is needed.</p>
<p><strong>Strategy</strong><br />
Call Shamsiel, pressure with Armaros&#8217; skill and swap to boost the Pegasus. As for Lancet, look at what needs an extra boost. Behind Armaros a CB4 can bring it to 20k, then Shamsiel can unflip an potentially net you a card. Normally, it would be found behind a Calamity allowing it to hit over 20k without enough thousand ray.<strong></p>
<p>Columns</strong><br />
Calamity+Turiel/Thousand Ray. Pegasus+Thousand Ray/Lancet Shooter, Armaros + Lancet<strong></p>
<p>Variations</strong><br />
The Grade 2 Nociel is nice for unflipping and switching but you may feel like there isn&#8217;t anything useful. Megalos also has many useful purposes. First, it can seal off your opponent&#8217;s heals while potentially activating limit break. It can also add another unit to the damage zone that may be more useful that what was available at the time. Like Nociel it also increases all of your units&#8217; power, but it doesn&#8217;t provide an &#8216;unflip&#8217;. Unless you desperately need to use Lancet shooter and Armaros on the same turn this should not be a large problem. What does make it below par is once you hit 5 damage, and with Angel Feathers the possiblility of going to and staying at 5 damage for a long time is quite high. Both operate on different scales, so you may choose to swap this in to see how this goes.</p>
<p><a name="Set9"></a></p>
<h2><strong>Set 9</strong></h2>
<p>Variations: Replace [DRAW] for Fever Thearpy Nurse.</p>
<h2><strong>Conclusion</strong></h2>
<p>Shamsiel is quite an annoying vanguard to face, especially to AqF. Shamsiel obviously can not survive in a bare field and/or hand , so either an in-your-face rush strategy or a  retire ability can bring it down. Otherwise, the opponent will have a hard time as you draw out the battle as long as possible.
<i class="fa fa-stop"></i>
</p>